---
title: KEP Template
authors:
  - "@starpit"
  - "@paulcastro"
owning-sig: sig-cli
participating-sigs:
  - sig-cli
reviewers:
  - TBD
approvers:
  - TBD
editor: TBD
creation-date: 2019-11-14
last-updated: 2019-11-15
status: implemented
see-also:

replaces:

superseded-by:
 
---

# Kubectl Graphical Plugins

## Table of Contents

A table of contents is helpful for quickly jumping to sections of a KEP and for highlighting any additional information provided beyond the standard KEP template.

Ensure the TOC is wrapped with <code>&lt;!-- toc --&rt;&lt;!-- /toc --&rt;</code> tags, and then generate with `hack/update-toc.sh`.

<!-- toc -->
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
- [Proposal](#proposal)
  - [User Stories [optional]](#user-stories-optional)
    - [Story 1](#story-1)
    - [Story 2](#story-2)
  - [Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints [optional]](#implementation-detailsnotesconstraints-optional)
  - [Risks and Mitigations](#risks-and-mitigations)
- [Design Details](#design-details)
  - [Test Plan](#test-plan)
  - [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
    - [Examples](#examples)
      - [Alpha -&gt; Beta Graduation](#alpha---beta-graduation)
      - [Beta -&gt; GA Graduation](#beta---ga-graduation)
      - [Removing a deprecated flag](#removing-a-deprecated-flag)
  - [Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy](#upgrade--downgrade-strategy)
  - [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy)
- [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
- [Drawbacks [optional]](#drawbacks-optional)
- [Alternatives [optional]](#alternatives-optional)
- [Infrastructure Needed [optional]](#infrastructure-needed-optional)
<!-- /toc -->

## Summary

This enhancement offers a kubectl plugin framework that allows `kubectl` and `kubectl` plugins the ability to have graphical popups in response to normal CLI commands. To provide a popup-from-terminal experience, this project leverages the Kui project.

## Motivation

Today, the `kubectl` CLI and its plugins exists separately from the visual experience provided by consoles. The complexity of using kubernetes, from development to operation, demands modernized plugin enhancements to `kubectl` that are both efficient to use and provide modern, high-bandwidth, interactive visualizations that are vital for understanding application behavior.

### Goals

- k8s users can use a `kubeui` plugin that has graphical popups that enhance the user experience.
- developers can use a framework with a well defined API to develop their own plugins with graphical popups
- graphical plugins can leverage  `krew` for installation

### Non-Goals

- replace existing non-graphical `kubectl` plugins
We limit the scope such that graphical plugins and the required framework are optional and only installed at the decision of the user.
- radical updates to `krew` to support `kui` framework
We want to exist in the current ecosystem, and are not looking to replace current plugin management frameworks. We want to be compatible as much as technically possible based on communit priorities.

## Proposal

An implementation of this proposal is available at [https://github.com/kui-shell/plugin-kubeui](https://github.com/kui-shell/plugin-kubeui)


### Risks and Mitigations

- Mac OS X utilizes symlinks to link to platform frameworks.  Symlinks could be a security concern so we would need a way to ensure links are contained in "safe" directories

- Managing multiple graphical plugins on the same platform requires design choices, e.g. fat, self-contained plugins utilizing static linking vs. thin plugins with dynamic linking.

## Design Details

An implementation of this proposal is available at [https://github.com/kui-shell/plugin-kubeui](https://github.com/kui-shell/plugin-kubeui)

### Test Plan


### Graduation Criteria


#### Examples


##### Alpha -> Beta Graduation


##### Beta -> GA Graduation


##### Removing a deprecated flag


### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy


### Version Skew Strategy



## Implementation History



